there's no nautical joke where some
crusty captain will ask if you know the
definition of a boat when you start
giving some technical explanation he'll
cut you off and tell you a boat is a
hole in the water you throw money into
silent yachts was founded with a vision
of significantly reduced cost of yacht
ownership to explore the ocean in
sustainable luxury through innovative
clean technology the first and only
ocean-going production yachts in the
world which are powered by solar energy
silent yachts unlock the possibility of
unlimited range almost zero emissions
and greatly reduced maintenance
requirements noiseless and
self-sufficient all energy production is
done on board from propulsion to
navigation and even the household
equipment everything is powered by the
Sun the solar electric drivetrain means
an absence of vibration noise and smell
and provides total self-sufficiency but
what most yachtsman are interested in is
avoiding the marine fuel station at a
2,000 rpm cruise an average 55 foot
yacht will burn roughly 57 gallons of
fuel per hour that means on an 89 mile
cruise from Miami to the Bahamas it will
cost you about $750 in fuel onboard a
silent yacht the power is provided by
photons from the Sun collected by solar
panels and stored in lithium batteries
we got the opportunity to hop on the
latest silent 55e catamaran and got a
tour of its innovative features hello
I'm John Marcos any I'm the technical
director for and we designed all the
hybrid system for a sign yacht so this
is the sign got 55 this is number six we
just delivered it in the US this is the
first one in the US the solar roof
designed from the ground up as a solar
solar boat so we have a solar roof with
30 solar panels on the top those are
send power the solar panels they are 23
percent efficiency 360 what each so we
were told about 10 kilowatts of solar
panel on
on a sunny day we can collect it we have
three battery packs one two and three
each of those battery packs is 70 kilo
watt hours so it's Tesla for each packs
with 210 kilowatt hours of energy when
you are anchor we can live off those
batteries for a very long period of time
three or four days we without Sun but
the Sun will cover most of our usage all
the time so that's we very neutral that
it's become a bit more difficult with
the proportion if you go fast and then
you need to have that's why we have the
range extender because you you can go
for much longer period but before you
can go at six knots you can go 60 miles
so is the electric motor so this is a
model made by TM 4 it is a bus motor it
is a hundred 50 kilowatt continues
electric motor at 1500 rpm so yes 5000
Newton of maximum torque Newton metres
of torque yeah it's an electric motors
perfectly silent so the advantage is we
can use a straight shaft it's a direct
shaft there's no gearbox it's nothing I
mean these are thrust bearing because we
have to absorb the the propeller thrust
but they are no reduction no gearing and
this motor is really two motors in one a
permanent magnet motor so it's highly
efficient we have 96 percent efficiency
at the top of the top speed on the boat
is 17 knots we would not go 17 knots to
the Varma's the berries are not forward
yet so we are still pushing the energy
into the 24 volt battery until the
battery 24 volt battery is full
we are not exporting the energy into the
a voltage battery so you have here one
battery bank of 14 cells those batteries
are called the 18 650s
lithium-ion battery so Tesla like
Panasonic like the Tesla's I mean a pre
standard nav station for both with the
standard application you have thrusters
yeah regular navigation tools but is
what is the main display for the hybrid
system that system is the energy
management for the boat
it shows currently that the battery is
at 86% state of charge with discharging
about why no in fact even less than one
kilowatt of power and then the rest is
pretty off we had anchor so we're not
moving the advantage of the electric
boat is that we have a all the comfort
of all we have a full-size fridge we
have a multi-function oven so it's a
microwave convection oven the dishwasher
now we have a five-burner induction
plate we even have a washing machine
okay
so this is the VIP cabin just double bed
and full-size bathroom
so in the front is a master cabin that's
also one of the future design of the
fitness boat
yeah love headroom and you ever falton
queen-size bed
so what would a transatlantic journey in
this craft look like would you have to
stop and recharge or are you recharging
the batteries while you're moving and oh
yeah oh they adopt adapt your speed to
match your your solar production and
when it's too slow like when the 64 went
across the Atlantic at one point
effectively it was like love clouds so
they didn't have much power so they use
a bit of a generator to help them
propose fuller through those days but
that's a very small quantity of fuel for
the overall transatlantic crossing they
they wouldn't they did not have enough
fuel anyway to go across the Atlantic
that was not the goal so all the solar
panel so that would be the same it would
be a slow going
British speed it would be pedo five not
so light going slow
the silent 55 comes in three
configurations the standard cruiser with
230 kilowatt motors all electric the e
power with two 250 kilowatt motors and
more powerful battery banks which allow
for higher speeds and a hybrid power
version which comes equipped with 214
kilowatt motors and two additional 220
horsepower diesel engines that allow for
a top speed over 20 knots there's also
an optional addition for a fully
automatic high-altitude kite system as
well as an option for a traditional sale
to complement electric propulsion the 55
originally that boat the hull was a
sailboat so there is only book a
sailboat version of this this one which
makes absolutely no sense as far as a
solar boat because you have to remove
two-thirds of the panel and the other
third is covered by the shade of the
sail so it's not really working very
well as a solar boat but it works as a
sailboat kite option is definitively a
much better option and we were talking
about long range going very far that
would be the perfect option because now
you have an extra mean to get your power
to move the boat and those are fully
automated kites you just get them going
and they fly themselves in addition
silent yachts also produces a silent 60
silent 80 and silent 80 try deck model
what's the price on something like that
with the helicopter pad and everything
for million euros what kind of
maintenance is required compared to a
regular combustion powered boat almost
none the electric motors have a no
maintenance there's two bearings and
life expectancy of those bearing is
under thousand hours so we certainly do
not expect anything they are what it
cool so we have a heat exchanger the
heat exchanger requires a nose for limit
to limit the corrosion they need to be
changed that's about it so it's a very
simple compared to any other boat
there's no oil change bigger problem
with both as opposed to cause car use a
lot of talk to accelerate but once they
running they use less a lot less energy
to keep going they only have to overcome
the windage and the tire resistance the
boats is a totally different scenario
you need the energy all the time you
need to displace the water so you can
cut through it so you unlike the cars
you don't have those spike of torques
and then lower low energy you go up and
talk and you stay at the top all all the
time so you use a lot a lot more energy
than you use on the car and this is
basically your standard nav Tower we
have a radar there is a TV receiver a
FLIR camera for night vision GPSS and
standard boat equipment so that is the
actual generator it is under the
kilowatt generator so what do you use
the
or as a range extender okay the solar
panels we have 10 kilowatts of solar
panel the boat a 10 kilowatt there's
about 5 knots your solar speed is about
5 knots but if you want to go faster you
need to use a battery and you need to
recharge your batteries and if you do
extended cruising then you're going to
need the generator to supplement your
power the price for the silent 55
Cruiser Edition starts at around 1.5
million euros or 1.6 to million dollars
depending on the configuration as
electric power is transforming the
automotive world with evey adoption
rates growing at about 60% each year
silent yachts is poised to ride the wave
of technological advancements and motor
efficiency and improvements in battery
storage technology silent yachts might
just be an early entrant in an entirely
new category of electric yachting often
tempted but rarely pulled off so
gracefully in a fully functional
production-ready catamaran that's
gorgeous inside and out
if you enjoyed this video please give it
a like and subscribe to our channel so
we can have an excuse to do more cool
stuff like hanging out on a
solar-powered yacht for the day let us
know what you think about silent yachts
in the comments below here at electric
future we showcase the best cutting-edge
technology including electric vehicles
solar power and green energy and a lot
of tesla will let you finish off this
interior tour of the silent 55 thanks
for watching and have a great day